README.md, before:

# Useful Programming Resources

this is a repository for useful programming resources for new developers or to be used as a reference for those of us who are a bit rusty.

I'll do my best to keep this updated with links to useful tutorials, reference sheets, documentation & useful websites.  

however if anyone iss willing to contribute and help populate this repository, it's much appreciated!

<br/>

# Sections

___

## reference sheets
[reference_sheets/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/reference_sheets/README.md)  

includes links to:
- useful programming reference websites
- cheatsheets
- language documentation

___

## design patterns
[design_patterns/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/design_patterns/README.md)

includes links to useful documents and tutorials for structuring your code/programs/systems to be robust, scalable and production ready

___

## tricky concepts
[tricky_concepts/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/tricky_concepts/README.md)

will include links to useful documents and tutorials for tricky &/or confusing concepts

___

## full length courses
[python_tutorials/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/python_tutorials/README.md)

includes books and tutorials for extra practice and alternate explanationsofPython concepts

Commit message:

add code examples to readme

README.md, after:

# Useful Programming Resources

this is a repository for useful programming resources for new developers or to be used as a reference for those of us who are a bit rusty.

I'll do my best to keep this updated with links to useful tutorials, reference sheets, documentation & useful websites.  

however if anyone iss willing to contribute and help populate this repository, it's much appreciated!

<br/>

# Sections

___

## reference sheets
[reference_sheets/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/reference_sheets/README.md)  

includes links to:
- useful programming reference websites
- cheatsheets
- language documentation

___

## code examples
[code_examples/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/code_examples/README.md)

includes links to:
- annotated example code
- code used in my recorded YouTube tutorials
- example code written during Q&A sessions

___

## design patterns
[design_patterns/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/design_patterns/README.md)

includes links to useful documents and tutorials for structuring your code/programs/systems to be robust, scalable and production ready

___

## tricky concepts
[tricky_concepts/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/tricky_concepts/README.md)

will include links to useful documents and tutorials for tricky &/or confusing concepts

___

## full length courses
[python_tutorials/README.md](https://github.com/softwareByAndi/useful-programming-resources/blob/main/python_tutorials/README.md)

includes books and tutorials for extra practice and alternate explanations of Python concepts
